---
layout: post
title:      "Superb Sinatra!"
date:       2020-07-09 02:24:29 +0000
permalink:  superb_sinatra
---


Sinatra is a kind of framework that always excites me as it is a powerful tool on top of ruby to build a web application. Sinatra uses activerecord base and activerecord migration. They was sinatra is structured gives us the ability to ensure separation of concerns. One example can be writing migration for database and creating views for user is done in separate files. We can create a rakefile to describe all the rake tasks. The most frequently used rake task is called 'rake console' which allow us to create an instance or find the attributes in the console. Migration is a folder which allow us to create and drop table inside the database. It also give us the opportunity to modify any column. The main important part of any sinatra application is the app folder. There are three setions of it. They are called 'MVC' which is the short form of model, controller and view. When we run the server, the file called applicationcontroller is run first. The other files inside the controller are run subsequently. ApplicationController inherits from sinatra-base. Its basically the welcome page for the user. We also enable the session inside it. Session is a hash which stores the user credentials for future reference. The second member of mvc group is known as view. The view section let the user to see something on the screen as output. All the views files are named with erb extension. The ladt but not the least part of mvc is regarded as model. A model holds the defination of a class which inherits from activerecordbase. Inside the model we define the relationship among classes and add any features if we need. The most used data structure for sinatra app is a hash. Whenever a user wants to perform any action like sign-up, log-in or perform a task, the session hash is called and the app checks the hash if there is any matching data inside it. If it finds something, it lets the user to proceed otherwise redirects the user to somewhere else!
